Notes on the Coursera course: Vibe Coding Essentials - Build Apps with AI
2/12/26
https://www.coursera.org/learn/vibe-coding-with-cursor-ai

Setting up Cursor AI - a fork of vscode - Taught by Maham Codes
        cd ~/Downloads
        ls -lth cursor_2.4.35_amd64.deb 
            -rw-rw-r-- 1 prent prent 168M Feb 12 11:14 cursor_2.4.35_amd64.deb
        sudo apt install ./cursor_2.4.35_amd64.deb 
    Signed in to cursor.com as prent.rodgers@gmail.com - start with a two week hobby trial for free.
    Cursor provided me with an API key: key_b... saved in 1Password under Cursor API in API Crednetials.
    It opens a vscode like session with everything set up to access the needed API's for vibe coding. See: 
        pwd
            /home/prent/Repos/One-footed-bride-tuning
    This looks like a really useful tool. But I don't want to clone my project yet because I've made changes that aren't in the repo yet. 

    I updated all the changes I wanted in One-footed-bride-tuning, pushed it to github, then removed the copy inside TonicNet. It was just causing confusion. Switch to Cursor for a few days.

    Notes on the next steps for the One-footed-Bride-Tuning repo.

    Keys to remember: 
    Word Wrap: alt-z turns word wrap on and off.
    To find cursor settings, file --> preferences --> cursor settings
    Inside cursor settings, lots of options, including Docs (for Cursor), Indexing and Docs (yours)
    If the files list disappears, press ctrl-b and it comes back. 

    1. Add Docstring, argument types, and return types to all the functions in adaptive_tuning_util.py and diamond_music_utils.py so that when you hover over a library, it is self documenting.
        a. Set up types for all arguments and return values so that the caller knows what to expect.
    Save this for later:
        b. If a function is no longer needed by this repo, it should be commented out, unless you think you might need it soon.

    The Yolo mode, auto-run option. File --> Preferences --> Cursor settings --> Auto-Run Mode. 
    Key to influencing how cursor works is to add context, done with the @ sign. 

---------------
2/13/26 Debugging and Enhancing with Cursor.
    Red highlighted sections (purple on my screen) are code that cursor has removed 
    Green highlights (olive green on my screen) is code that cursor has added. 

    Four modes: Agent, Plan, Debug, Ask
    Highlight a section of code and see at the bottom that you get options to Add to Chat (ctrl-i) or Edit (ctrl-k). For example, I highlighted the previous sentence, and clicked on Edit. This opened a window and a wrote: change alt- to ctrl-, and clicked on accept (I think), and it changed alt-i and alt-k to ctlr-i and ctrl-k in the sentence highlighted. Neat. 
    You can paste files into the chat session, perhaps images copied from web sites, or code library files, narratives. They become context for the model to include in it's answers. 
    She shows how to add more content to the chat session with the Add context button. But mine doesn't have that. I can get it though when I start a prompt with @. 
    Advanced features include lots of things that Claude Code offers, like Rules for how to get certain things done in a manner consistent with your firm's preferences. 

    I wonder if we could use the enhanced simulated annealing paper and github repo to speed up my SA. I could add that doc and codebase to the chat session. I didn't have much success doing that before, but models keep improving. I think early stopping is probabaly already captured most of the efficiency gains of that technique. 
    
    She frequently adds images (random) from unsplash.com. unsplash offers an API to pull random images using RESTful calls with options. 

    Cursor Rules, now in the section Rules, Skills, Subagents. 
    Rules can be global or local to a Project. 
    Model Context Protocol (MCP) For docs on MCP go to http://modelcontextprotocol.io/introduction
    To set up MCP servers, go to Cursor Settings --> Tools & MCP --> Add Custom MCP
    Think if an MCP server that takes care of github actions for you. Imagine that! TO add the github you need the github personal access token. I need to put that in 1Password. Done. 
    Smithery.ai for repository for MCP servers. One click install into cursor or other tools. It asked for my cursor ID, which is based on Google authentication. 
    I created the github token across all repos but I may not have selected read and write access. It appears to be enough, since the new repo was created. This is the prompt: use the github mcp to create a new repo called "github-agent" and add a readme in it with details on Model Context Protocol. It's there: https://github.com/prentrodgers/github-agent
    Neat! Cursor --> Smithery --> Github in less than a minute.
    It's also local here: 
        ls ~/Repos
            One-footed-bride-tuning  github-agent
    Very cool. 

------------------
Next up Vibe Coding with GitHub Copilot
    Getting started. 
    3 modes: Agent, Ask, Plan. These are new since this video was prepared in April 2025. They were Ask, Edit, Agent. Everything is changing so fast!

    I asked Github copilot to create a presentation in black & white on my github repo:
        I'm giving a presentation on my github repo at https://github.com/prentrodgers/One-footed-bride-tuning and I'd like to create some fancy black and white presentation charts covering the technology of tuning, Harry Partch's Tonality Diamond, Simulated Annealing on 4-note chords, the harmony and tuning of JS Bach, Csound sample based synthesis, and the music I've created synthesizing these tools.
    It's building all kinds of charts, flow charts, block diagrams, all very official. He's using Mermaid diagrams. They are not very useful here. I can't use this. Don't give up yet. Ask him to figure something out. He's thinking. I set the model to Auto, and also added the Granite4 from my local Ollama instance. But I can't tell if it will use it in Copilot. 
    She's covering inline coding feature now. She says to press ctrl-i to pull up Copilot inline. But for me it starts up Continue. I'm going to disable continue for a while. 
    It works now. 
    Edit Mode (Now called Agent mode) - natural language prompts and voice. She illustrates by creating a calculator app. 
    She stresses the importance of putting in the chat the files that you want Copilot to work on with the @ sign. 
    Ask mode for asking for help, but not allowing touching any of your files.
    You can include all the code in the current directory by
    1. click paper clip icon --> Add Context or ctrl-/
    2. Select Codebase - doesn't work for me. 

    Inline code completion. ctrl-i opens a tiny window inside your code where you can create a targetted update to the code from a prompt.

    Agents can autonomousely execute multi-step tasks, coding or otherwise. 
    
    Advanced Copilot tools. 
    Context Tools. How to focus Copilot on the files or tools that you want it to use. 
    Slash commands. Open up chat --> Ask and press the slash command to direct Copilot to the right type of task for it to perform. 
    Custom instructions - Provide organization specific preferences for how it does tasks. Can be json or markdown, but must be in specific places and names. 
    For json, ctrl-shift p search for vscode workspace settings. In the root of the repo, it creates a  .vscode directory with settings.json file in it, with an empty set {}.
    For Markdown, create .github folder. Inside that create copilot-instructions.md file with instructions there. For example:
        The first line should be a brief summary under 50 characters. 
        Leave a blank line.
        The body should explain the change in detail, no more than 100 characters, Always begin the commit message with a relevant emoji
    Then put a link in the settings.json to that markdown directory. 
        {
        "github.copilot.chat.commitMessageGeneration.instructions" [
        : { "file": ".github/copilot-instructions.md" }
        ]
        }